.Dd June 9, 2022
.Dt SIFT_QUEUE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sift_queue
.Nd queue requests to Google Trends
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm sift_queue
.Op Fl -comment Ar comment
.Op Fl -dry-run
.Op Fl -duplicates
.Op Fl -tag Ar name
.Cm command
.Op Ar arguments
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to queue requests to Google Trends.
This queue is read by
.Xr sift_dispatcher 1
which then executes the requests.
.Pp
.Ar kw
is either a query string or a topic identifier.
If
.Ar kw
starts with a colon, the part after it is interpreted as a keyword id.
Multiple keywords can be specified using keyword tags, in that case
.Ar kw
starts with a percent character followed by the keyword tag.
.Pp
The
.Ar location
argument is either an ISO code (as used by Trends so this includes DMA
codes) or the special string
.Sq world
for no geograhpic restriction.
If
.Ar location
starts with a slash the part after it is used as a SQL LIKE pattern to
match the ISO code.
.Pp
The following options exist:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -comment Ar comment
Sets the comment field r_note of the newly queued request(s).
.It Fl -dry-run
Don't queue anything, just display what would happen.
.It Fl -duplicates
Indicates that this request duplicates a request already in the
database.
If this option is given, the r_note field must be set using the
.Fl -comment
option.
It is an error to specify this option when the request is not a
duplicate.
.It Fl -tag Ar name
Mark the newly queued request(s) with the request tag
.Ar name .
If the tag doesn't exist, it is created.
.El
.Pp
The following commands exists:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm one Ar start Ar end Ar kw Ar geo
Fetches a single time frame.
.It Cm from-day Ar start Ar kw Ar geo
Queues consecutive four hour time frames starting at
.Ar start .
.It Cm fetch-week Ar week Ar kw Ar geo
Queues a request for an entire weeks starting at
.Ar week
.It Cm overlap-week-fetch Ar start Ar overlap Ar kw Ar geo Op Ar end
Queues weekly time frames starting at
.Ar start .
Each time frame will overlap the previous one by
.Ar overlap
days.
.It Cm four-days-two-overlap Ar start Ar end Ar kw Ar geo
Queues requests for four day timeframes with two days overlap.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was written by
.An Martin Vahlensieck Aq Mt martinva@student.ethz.ch
during his master thesis.
